# ---
# layout: default
# title: Proposal
# nav_order: 6
# ---

Introduction
       Whether meeting strangers or trusting old friends, social situations are often rife with uncertainty. Uncertainty is important at least in part because it often yields pervasive, negative feelings that can be hard to manage (FeldmanHall & Shenhav, 2019) and which likely have effects upon how individuals evaluate information and make decisions. For example, adult populations consistently demonstrate aversion to ambiguous economic (Ellsberg, 1961; Li et al., 2015; Trautmann et al., 2008) and social sources of uncertainty (e.g., individuals exchange reward to reduce ambiguity in influencing others (Hertz et al., 2020)). Clinical populations, including those with schizophrenia (Fujino et al., 2016), autism spectrum, and anxiety disorders (Wigham et al., 2015) demonstrate even stronger aversive responses than typical populations and high uncertainty intolerance is associated with emotion dysregulation (Shu et al., 2021). Social ambiguity appears to have significant health ramifications for adolescents as well, as the presence of social stressors in early adolescence predicts depression susceptibility two years later (Pagliaccio et al., 2022). However, we understand very little about how social certainty judgments manifest, even among healthy and neurotypical adult populations.
       We effectively measure uncertainty in perceptions (e.g., assessing luminance changes) and calculations (e.g., maximizing earnings) (Blankenstein et al., 2016; Ellsberg, 1961; Li et al., 2015; Wigham et al., 2015) with established paradigms, but fewer investigations have attempted to capture the experience of uncertainty as it relates to social others. Trust games (Alós-Ferrer & Farolfi, 2019), in which a participant competes or collaborates with a real or fictitious other to make economic decisions, are an effective means of socializing non-social uncertainty sources, but lack key features of an ambiguous social world. Rather than being organized in neatly defined, unimodal trials, assessments of social sources of uncertainty (e.g., assessing a farfetched story, narratives) (Lauharatanahirun et al., 2021), are continuously updated as relevant multimodal information is identified and sorted from irrelevant information and probabilities are rarely known (FeldmanHall & Shenhav, 2019). The few studies that have compared social and non-social sources of ambiguity suggest that certain neural regions demonstrate selective activation in response to one or the other. Social certainty judgements uniquely rely on the inferior frontal gyrus (IFG), ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (vlPFC), precuneus, and anterior insula (AI) while non-social evaluations rely more heavily upon the intraparietal sulcus (IPS) (Fairley et al., 2022; Martinez?Saito & Gorina, 2022). Such differences may reflect differences in goals associated with social and non-social ambiguity assessments, as non-social assessments may demand greater focus on unimodal sensory details and quantifiable calculations while social assessments may demand greater focus on heuristics and prior experiences (Ma et al., 2022; Martinez?Saito & Gorina, 2022). 
       While we have some idea regarding how social certainty judgments vary across domains, we have almost no information about intradomain variations in certainty judgment formation. It is likely that these differences in heuristics and prior experiences unique to each individual also produce unique perspectives that influence how individuals evaluate new information and form judgments of certainty in response to ambiguous social sources. Even when presented with the exact same baseline information, individuals can form wildly different hypotheses as to how uncertainty might conclude or resolve. Furthermore, commonality in perspective or the hypotheses that individuals generate when faced with uncertainty might be indicative of commonality in the neural representations of ambiguous social information within these regions responsible for generating certainty judgments. That is to say, when individuals report highly synchronous or similar assessments of the same information, we can also hypothesize that they are experiencing highly synchronous or similar representations within certain neural regions responsible for assessing that information. 
        My outlined dissertation proposal first reviews preliminary data that we have collected and analyzed to extend the extant literature on behavioral and neural representations of social certainty judgment formation using novel naturalistic paradigms. My proposed dissertation will also use behavioral and neural studies to build upon this work and determine the extent to which synchrony in neural activity while experiencing social uncertainty is indicative of synchrony in behavior and memory while experiencing social uncertainty and differentiating this pattern from non-social uncertainty. This will be accomplished by having participants continuously assess how certain they are of a social (e.g., a character’s innocence/guilt) and non-social perceptual (i.e., video frame luminance) outcome while watching video stimuli and applying Intersubject Correlation (ISC) methodology to the data. As previously noted, this naturalistic approach captures many features of a social world absent from other paradigms in the literature, and thus offers novel ecological validity to a construct with notable real-world associations. Our use of advanced statistical methods like ISC, to the best of our knowledge, has not been used to explore uncertainty-related cognitions in response to social sources, but represents a robust analytical technique well suited to explore synchrony across individuals in response to complex multidimensional experiences. 
The present research
Study 1
	We used a within-subject design to explore how an individual’s perspective influences their formation of certainty judgments over time using short clips from popular crime television shows. If participants who share a common perspective or underlying traits demonstrate high levels of synchrony with one another in the time course of their certainty judgments and relatively less synchrony with those entertaining different perspectives or underlying traits, it supports the use of this paradigm as an effective means of study certainty judgments as they unfold across a narrative over time. It also could motivate follow-up explorations to determine whether the synchrony demonstrated behaviorally is also reflected neurally.
Methods
	Forty-six (46) participants (mean age = 20.6 yrs; age range = 18-56; sd age = 5.9 yrs; 36 female) were recruited from a public research university in the northeast region of the United States of America (USA) on the SONA platform (https://www.sona-systems.com/research-management.aspx) for a study examining how "regulatory decision-making may be influenced by the presence of mental representations". Because our stimuli included popular television shows, participants were excluded for indicating familiarity with the plot of a selected show or having seen a selected show prior to the study. Forty-three (43) participants completed all study procedures. Errors occurred in the presentation of stimuli during three participants’ sessions, resulting in only partial data collection during our primary task. Participants consented to 2 hours of study participation in exchange for either course credit or $20 in gift cards. Experimental procedures were approved by the university's Institutional Review Board for Human Subjects. All subjects provided informed consent. Participants completed the study in-person on the Qualtrics platform and using a PsychoPy (version 2021.1.2) coded program. 
       Study Design. All data was collected in a single session. Participants completed two computerized tasks followed by a series of questionnaires. During the first task, participants watched 9 video clips (mean length = 320.4s, length range = 203s - 465s, sd length = 80.8s) from five popular murder mystery shows (Mindhunter, The Night Of, Fargo, Broadchurch, The Undoing) while continuously indicating from moment to moment how certain they felt of a target character's innocence or guilt towards the purported crime (See Fig 1.). In other words, participants were instructed to dynamically update their certainty ratings as events within the stimuli unfolded and influenced their judgements of the target character's innocence or guilt. The value of their certainty rating ranged from -100 (fully certain of guilt) to 100 (fully certain of innocence) and this value was sampled approximately 22 times per second. The target character changed across videos but was consistent across participants. This character was identified prior to each video, in addition to a summary of their alleged crime and the victim of that crime. Crucially, prior to each clip, participants were also instructed to adopt one of three potential roles ("Friend of the Accused", "Friend of the Victim", "Detective"). Each participant adopted each of these roles three times across the nine videos. Both the presentation of the videos and assignment of roles were randomized. Participants were asked to maintain their assigned perspective throughout the duration of the video while making judgments as if they were going to be called to testify in some manner to increase engagement.
       The task played video clips upon a gray background with a vertically oriented scale to the right of the video which visualized the participant's feelings of certainty from moment to moment towards the target character's guilt or innocence. Participants were given a game controller which included a joystick and were instructed to use their joystick to indicate when events within the video altered their feelings of certainty, including in which direction and by what magnitude their feelings altered. Moving the joystick in an upwards direction moved the scale to indicate that participants were judging the target character innocence and moving the joystick moved downwards moved the scale towards indicating complete certainty of guilt. Participants received a demonstration in using the joystick to indicate ratings prior to starting the task.  Following each video, participants were asked a series of questions related to the clip assessing comprehension, engagement, the influence of different features towards their certainty ratings, and the participant's ability to adopt their assigned role. The second task requested that participants self-identify significant people in their lives and maintain representations of those individuals as they made choices between outcomes which might be categorized as relatively more responsible versus enjoyable (i.e., playing a video game versus studying for a test). While this data was collected following the first task within the same session, the data and results are largely irrelevant and beyond the purview of the current proposal.
       Participants also completed a battery of measures on Qualtrics including, but not limited to, the Barratt Impulsiveness Scale (BIS), General Self-Efficacy Scale (GSE), Interpersonal Reactivity Index (IRI), Consideration of Future Consequences Scale (CFC), Domain-Specific Risk-Taking Scale (DOSPERT), and Difficulty in Emotion Regulation (DERS).	
Results and Discussion
       Confounds. To determine whether different perspectives generate differences in the experience of forming judgments, we first used mixed effects ANOVA models accounting for the random effect of participant to determine whether differences exist across relevant variables based upon role. If overwhelming differences exist in these potential confounds, they may limit our ability to isolate the relationship between perspective and judgement formation synchrony. No statistically significant differences were observed among the roles regarding how engaged participants were with the task, their ability to comprehend the narrative, how emotionally intense they determined the narrative to be, how emotionally intense their response to the video was, how curious they were about the narrative, how complex they judged the narrative to be, or how influential context, information, or character identity was towards their judgements (range p values = 0.2 – 1.0) (See Fig 2). However, those in the detective role reported that their perspective had a greater influence upon their judgments than those in the friend of accused role (xdiff = 0.65, 95% CI = [0.20, 1.09], t(256) = -3, p = 0.005). Additionally, the detective perspective was reported to be significantly easier to adopt (xdiff = 0.91, 95% CI = [0.57, 1.27], t(243) = -5, p < 0.001) and maintain (xdiff = 0.98, 95% CI = [0.63, 1.34], t(250) = -5, p < 0.001) relative to the friend of victim perspective and the friend of the victim perspective was reported to be significantly easier to adopt (xdiff = 0.52, 95% CI = [0.12, 0.92], t(255) = 3, p = 0.01) and maintain (xdiff = 0.64, 95% CI = [0.23, 1.04], t(253) = 3, p = 0.002) relative to the friend of accused perspective. The ease in adopting and maintain detective roles relative to the others may reflect the established conventions of the crime drama genre which often invites and expects the viewer to piece together the mystery much as a detective would, making the perspective more familiar. While the roles differed very minimally in most regards, the noted differences likely represent an important limitation in assigning perspectives to participants that they might not naturally adopt themselves. 
	Perspective-Influences in Certainty Judgments. We used several analytic tools to determine how the perspectives individuals adopt influence their certainty judgments, including in synchrony of judgment formation over time across participants, in the magnitude of certainty judgments, and the variance in certainty judgments.
	We expected that certainty judgements within this paradigm, which presents participants with dynamic video stimuli each containing a unique series of events, would be influenced by the contents of the stimuli as least as much as by the perspectives they adopt. This notion is informally, or non-statistically, supported by Figures 3 and 4 which illustrate the average certainty rating of each perspective plotted over time for each video as well as a more granular view of individual observations from the Season 1 Episode 3 Broadchurch stimulus, respectively. In Figure 3, we can  see very clear shared responses across perspectives at key moments, such as the increase in guilt certainty about 75% through The Night Of. This represents the effect of events within the narrative, which, regardless of your perspective, carry a very clear information signal. However, we also see important variances in certainty trajectories by perspective, especially in Figure 4. The slope of the Friend of Victim perspective is relatively less steep at least in part due to the greater variance in certainty ratings individuals adopting that perspective exhibited while watching that stimulus. This offers evidence to suggest that perspective is moderating how information is being evaluated and informing certainty judgments. 
       To quantitatively examine whether adopting a similar perspective predicts more similar certainty judgment formation over time, the time course of each participant’s certainty rating for a given video was correlated with every other participant’s certainty ratings for that video using the spearman-rank method. To avoid artificially inflating the magnitude of the correlations due to the high sample rate, certainty ratings were resampled and averaged at the level of seconds and detrended. This yielded a unique correlation matrix for each video with comparisons across participants. We then calculated the average correlative value for each perspective pair across all videos, yielding a value representative of how synchronous or similar each certainty judgement was between each perspective while forming certainty judgments. As predicted, congruent perspectives (e.g., detective-detective comparisons) demonstrated higher synchrony than non-congruent perspectives  (e.g., detective-friend of accused comparisons), as determined by a mixed effects ANOVA adjusting for the random effect of participant (F(1, 15516) = 98.2, p < 0.001). However, it must be noted that the high volume of observations nearly guaranteed any numeric differences would achieve statistical significance. In reality, the magnitude differences between congruent and non-congruent comparisons were relatively small and may not be effectively meaningful (See Fig. 5). Regardless we did derive quantitative evidence suggesting that similar perspectives yield more similar certainty judgment trajectories.  
       Although correlational methods can tell us that perspective promotes greater synchrony, it fails to comment upon what decisions or behaviors participants adopting the same perspective are engaging in to produce greater similarity. As such, we employed drift-diffusion-inspired methodology to further explore how judgment formation differs by perspective. We hypothesized that the perspectives would differ in the magnitude of certainty participants experience. We were able to test this hypothesis by comparing the average certainty ratings across time points in addition to the slope of participants’ judgment trajectories. Using another mixed effects ANOVA model accounting for the random effects of participant and stimulus, we found significant differences among the perspectives averaged across timepoints (F(2, 335) = 12.1, p < 0.001, ?2p = 0.067), such that both the Detective (t(338.8) = 4.74, p < 0.001) and Friend of Victim (t(339.4) = 4.52, p < 0.001) perspectives were more certain on average of their judgments than Friend of Accused perspectives (See Fig. 6a). The slope of a participants judgment is calculated by determining the difference in value between a participant’s ending and starting certainty values divided by the amount of time it took to arrive at that value. Friends of Victims reported a significantly greater slope (indicating that they become more certain than other roles in a given amount of time) than both Detectives (t(341.3) = -2.27, p = 0.02) and Friends of the Accused (t(340.3) = -4.84, p < 0.001), and Detectives also reported a significantly greater slope than Friends of the Accused (t(340.3) = -4.84, p  < 0.001) (See Fig. 6b). The general trend we observe is that perspective influences the magnitude of certainty that individuals build over time. 
       However, perhaps the more interesting question is how does perspective moderate variance in certainty judgment formation; that is to say: how does perspective change the way that we value new information? To determine this we calculated the area of the curve which is a calculation of how much a rating deviates from its slope between inflection points, or periods when a person is updating their ratings. Positive area of the curve is indicative of movement towards greater certainty (likely in response to information providing greater clarity) while negative area of the curve is indicative of a movement towards greater uncertainty (likely in response to information introducing greater ambiguity). Once again, mixed effects ANOVA models were generated comparing the perspectives. Regarding positive area under the curve, no differences were observed by condition (See Fig. 6c); that is, all perspectives respond similarly to information which introduces greater clarity towards their certainty ratings. However, Friends of Victims report less negative area of the curve relative to Friends of Accused (t(339.8) = 2.31, p = 0.02), suggesting that the certainty judgments of Friends of Victims are not as influenced by ambiguous information or information which makes them less certain of their conclusions (See Fig. 6d). 
 	Limitations and Future Directions. Though our pilot highlighted many important ways in which perspective influenced certainty judgment formation over time, it suffers from a number of limitations which must be improved upon in subsequent projects. As noted, assigning perspectives to participants and asking them to maintain those perspectives may limit the reliability of our findings, as participants reported being less able to adopt and maintain the non-detective positions. Our future projects should ideally allow participants to form their own hypotheses and let those hypotheses be tested and updated naturally as information is learned. Some of the statistical approaches (i.e., Figure 5) used to motivate following studies are rather rudimentary approaches and would demand significant refinement if they were to be prepared for publishing, but which given the circumstances, do still illustrate the relationships we are interested in in a basic sense. Additionally, using a single narrative which unfolds over a longer time course, rather than nine short clips, would better approximate the phenomena that we’re interested in modeling within this project. Lastly, these models as constructed cannot reliably separate the influence of the stimulus from the influence of perspective. That is to say, we do not have independent measurements of the importance or weight of information and events and such metrics should be important to modeling synchrony in behavioral, cognitive, or neural phenomena.      
Study 2
       Improving upon many of the limitations outlined within Study 1, our ongoing fMRI project aims to test the efficacy of a similar paradigm in which participants watch a single stimulus with a longer narrative and indicate their certainty without direction from the researcher. Such a design would eventually allow us to determine the degree of neural synchrony that occurs across participants who may be forming similar certainty judgments or entertaining similar hypotheses as well as determining which regions demonstrate differential responses to uncertainty. However, such an approach is quite novel; thus, we conducted preliminary analyses to determine whether our paradigm appears to be eliciting data as expected. 
Methods
       Twenty-six (26) participants (mean age = 24.4 yrs; age range = 19-44; sd age = 5.6 yrs; 12 female) were recruited from a public research university in the northeast region of the USA for a study examining how "use information to judge television characters". Participants were excluded if they indicated any familiarity with the plot of HBO’s The Undoing. All  participants completed all study procedures. Participants consented to 2.5 hours of study participation in exchange for $65 in gift cards. Experimental procedures were approved by the university's Institutional Review Board for Human Subjects. All subjects provided informed consent. Participants completed the study in-person on the Qualtrics platform and using a PsychoPy (version 2021.2.3) coded program.
       Study Design. All data was collected in a single session. Participants first complete a training exercise to ensure comfortability using a handheld device (i.e., button box/joystick) and to assess ability to clearly hear audio. During the primary social uncertainty task, participants are introduced to the target and supporting characters by reviewing necessary but minimal background information (e.g., character’s names, general roles, and relationships to other characters). Participants then watch video (i.e., The Undoing, HBO Television) while continuously rating how certain they are of a given outcome (i.e., a character’s innocence or guilt) using their handheld device. A rotating checkered pattern precedes and follows each stimulus for 30 seconds, which is standard practice to assess responses from the visual system when using dynamic video stimuli (Chen et al., 2017). The stimulus is split into two 22 minute 17 second components and presented to participants across two sequential runs, with the first 17 seconds of each run being ignored to account for initial scanner lag. Following the primary task, participants watch 5 minutes of video from a different episode of the stimulus show, but containing the same characters, and rate how certain they are that the luminance of each frame is lighter or darker than a target image. The target image is visible throughout the task and is the frame closest to the average luminance of all frames contained within the stimulus, such that an approximately even number of frames are lighter and darker than the target image. This measures a participant’s formation of perceptual certainty judgments. Participants then perform a surprise free recall task in which they must recite any detail that they can remember from the primary task stimulus. This data is recorded and transcribed. Participants are encouraged to speak for at least ten minutes to provide sufficient data, however, recall of any length is acceptable. Lastly, participants are removed from the scanner and complete questionnaires to assess anxiety (Skapinakis, 2014), uncertainty intolerance (Carleton et al., 2007; Kruglanski et al., 1993), depression (Beck, 1961), demographics, character assessments (e.g. “How agreeable was character X?”) based upon a validated measure of person perception dimensions (Thornton & Mitchell, 2018), engagement with  and difficulties in completing the task, and how their personal theories of the outcome (e.g., which character committed the crime) evolved over time. Behavioral certainty ratings, which are sampled at the stimulus’s framerate (24 Hz), are averaged across 2 second periods to match the repetition time (2000ms) of our image acquisition. The luminance of each frame in the perceptual certainty task is derived from its calculated luma value. The function used to calculate these values was built in R, works with any video stimulus, and is publicly-available for other users via Github. Free recall recordings are first processed through a standard audio editing pipeline to ensure clarity and then annotated by trained researchers in combination with an AI transcription platform (OtterAI). 
       Image Acquisition. Scanning is performed on a 3T Siemens Tim Trio MRI system. Acquisition parameters for the T2* EPI BOLD sequence includes 3 mm slice thickness, a TR = 2000 ms; TE = 25 ms; flip angle of 75?, and a FOV = 1680 x 1680 mm. Data is be preprocessed with the standard fMRIPrep pipeline (Esteban et al., 2017) to maintain generalizability. Though traditional fMRI video paradigms bin segments of video (e.g., 30 seconds) into trials (Chen et al., 2017), such an approach would be inappropriate in conjunction with our behavioral measure, as it would necessitate averaging ratings across the length of the bin. As such, our analysis takes inspiration from event segmentation and defines each event as any rating inflection, indicating a change in cognition regarding the predetermined outcome (Antony et al., 2021). Motion outliers will be assessed using the FSL Motion Outlier Tool (Jenkinson et al., 2012), which defines outlier thresholds as the 75th percentile plus 1.5 times the interquartile range. If greater than 15% of TRs that compose a trial are outliers, the TR is not used for analyses. 
Results and Discussion
	Neural Response to Social Ambiguity. To determine whether our paradigm is eliciting neural responses as the literature may suggest, we conducted preliminary univariate analyses using FSL’s Feat Tool (Jenkinson et al., 2012). Participants’ behavioral certainty ratings from moment to moment were first detrended (resulting in a time course of only rating inflections), demeaned, and z-standardized, to reduce spurious correlative influences and lagged by 10 seconds to capture the decision-making cognitive processes that precede rating changes. Such a lag is analogous to standard practices in the memory event-segmentation literature (Antony et al., 2021; Heusser et al., 2021). These values were then inserted into the onset files for each participant as parametric modulator which would ideally correlate with neural activity in key regions. Prior to conducting this process, we reviewed the pre-existing literature (Fairley et al., 2022; Martinez?Saito & Gorina, 2022) and hypothesized that the orbitofrontal (OFC) and dorsolateral prefrontal (dlPFC) regions would activate during uncertainty tasks in general with additional anterior insula (AI), dorsal anterior cingulate (dACC), ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (vlPFC) and inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) activation during social uncertainty tasks specifically. Additional validation was received by querying Neurosynth’s meta-analytic software (Tor D., 2011) using the terms “social cognition”, “ambiguous”, and “uncertainty” to identify key regions that we might expect to respond if our paradigm is prompting social ambiguity-related cognition. Neurosynth’s composite association z-statistic map was largely consistent with our hypothesized circuitry. The pattern of activation which resulted from FSL’s Feat was largely consistent with our hypothesis (See Fig. 8), suggesting that this paradigm is eliciting activation within regions consistent with the literature on social ambiguity despite the added dimensionality present in this design relative to the extant referenced literature. 
       Neural Synchrony During Judgment Formation. Additional preliminary analyses were conducted using this small dataset to determine whether neural synchrony could be observed among participants who report similar perspectives or hypotheses. We had anticipated that individuals who reported more similar certainty judgments or beliefs would yield greater synchrony in the previously highlighted regions (See Fig 8.). Intersubject Correlation (ISC) is a somewhat novel, data-driven approach to fMRI analysis which identifies common neural activity across individuals explained by a shared component and can answer many of our questions regarding cognitive-neural synchrony. To determine whether we have evidence to suggest shared perspective or hypotheses yield increase neural synchrony, data from a subset of participants who rated the second half of the stimulus and indicating sharing the same hypothesis regarding the identity of the murderer (n = 4) was processed using tools relevant to ISC from the NLTools library (Chang et al., 2018). The results of this process were compared to a second ISC analysis conducted on all other participants (n = 22) who watched the same stimuli but endorsed a different hypothesis regarding the identity of the killer. In both cases, regions were isolated into 400 functionally-defined cortical parcellations across 17 networks, as defined by Schafer et al. (2018). In following this procedure, we observe notable increases in synchrony in key regions when participants share a common hypothesis relative to everyone else in the sample who did not share that hypothesis. Notably, the correlative value of the right inferior frontal gyrus increases from 0.058 to 0.124 while the dorsal anterior cingulate increased from 0.013 to 0.111 and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex increased to 0.101 from	0.048 (See Fig. 9). The largest increases in synchrony outside of unimodal sensory regions occurred in the precuneus, which is involved in social cognition (Yeshurun et al., 2017) and is likely crucial for forming social judgments in this context.         
       Limitations and Future Directions. While the present analyses represent a promising first step, there are a number of gaps in our knowledge and means by which we could improve or make more granular our analytic approach. From the data we have collected alone, we do not know the distribution of hypotheses (i.e., how likely an individual is to believe a specific character committed the crime), how often hypotheses change as information is revealed, or how many individuals must be sampled to achieve a well-powered representative sample for each of the common hypothesis types. We also currently must remain agnostic towards the weight of different pieces of information. It is likely that certain moments or events exhibit a stronger influence upon a person’s certainty judgment formation and this influence should be adjusted for within our models, but we do not currently have that information available. We also do not have clearly delineated event boundaries, which may make it difficult to conduct any event related analyses, including traditional univariate statistics, or to examine how optimized our stimulus is for being able to detect variance in neural signal. With clearly delineated event boundaries and informational weights, we could use tools such as a Fourier Transform to answer this question (Rowe et al., 2007). Lastly, while the given results may suggest that our task is targeting areas associated with forming judgments of social uncertainty, there are a number of competing cognitive functions which could be equally responsible for the pattern of activation we observe, such as semantic mediation or the act of “self-talk” (Altavilla et al., 2022; Yoshioka et al., 2023). While likely inseparable involved in the process of judgment formation, we can better isolate the effects and associations of social uncertainty judgment formation by contrasting it against non-social phenomena and study designs which modify the rating process (i.e., consider certainty judgments without physical indicating your rating). All of this information can help us better distinguish the effects of perspective from the effects of the stimulus and other less interesting influences upon neural synchrony. 
Proposed Research (Dissertation)
       The following studies represent research I am proposing to complete for my dissertation to improve upon or fill gaps in the previously conducted research. These include two behavioral studies to supplement our understanding of the features of our stimulus and a series of analyses to be conducted upon our neural data to examine neural synchrony in response to common perspectives more in-depth.
Study 3: Hypothesis Distribution
       To determine which hypotheses participants are generating, how frequently they are generated, and how often they are updated, participants will participate in a behavioral study tasking them to watch Episode 4 of The Undoing and to regularly report which character they believe had committed the highlighted crime. Our current paradigm only asks participants to track their certainty regarding the guilt or innocence of a single character with opportunities at the middle and end of the study to report which other character, if any, a participant believes committed the crime. From this information alone, we know that over half of participants (53.6%) from the existing Study 2 data report suspecting a different character at the end than they reported in the middle, suggesting perspectives are dynamically updated. However, with this approach we cannot determine how dynamic hypothesis-updated is. If participants are updating their hypotheses as to who committed the crime more frequently than twice, we may be missing important variation which could help explain neural synchrony patterns. Furthermore, we do not have strong established priors as to which hypotheses participants are likely to be entertaining at any given point. Study 2 allows participants to chose from among 4 primary suspects (Fernando, Franklin, Jonathan, Grace) and the likelihood that a participant had considered them the primary suspect at either point was on average close to even (Fernando: 23%; Franklin: 20%; Jonathan: 32%; Grace: 25%) but participants could be considering additional characters or more strongly suspect certain suspects during certain events. By utilizing a free response design, we can better capture variance in participants’ natural responses and cognitions with minimal researcher direction or influence.
Proposed Methods
       Approximately one-hundred ten (110) subjects (accounting for a 10% attrition rate and approximately 25 participants per each of the four main suspects, assuming an approximately even likelihood they are the primary suspect on average at each point across stimulus exposure) will be recruited amongst the undergraduate population of a public research university in the northeast region of the USA for a study examining how we "use information to judge television characters".  Although not ideal, undergraduates will be used, rather than recruiting from a general population, to reserve resources for the primary neuroimaging project. Participants will be excluded if they indicate any familiarity with the plot of HBO’s The Undoing. Participants will receive course credit in exchange for 1.5 hours of in-person study participation. Procedures will be approved by the university's Institutional Review Board for Human Subjects. 
       Proposed Design. Each participant’s data will be collected in a single in-person session. Participants will first perform a training exercise to ensure comprehension. During the primary task, participants are provided necessary but minimal background information about the narrative they are about to watch (i.e., The Undoing, HBO Television) (e.g., character’s names, general roles, and relationships to other characters). Prior to the video start, participants will be asked to continuously assess who they believe committed the crime noted in the stimulus. Notably, they will not be continuously rating how certain they are of any character’s innocence. Instead, participants will passively watch the video with interruptions at jittered intervals (approx. 1min apart; 45 interruptions total) during which they will be asked to identify who they believe had committed the crime and to rank the possible suspects in order from most to least likely to have committed the crime. This study design will be piloted with a small group of subjects (n = 10) prior to fully committing to recruitment. 
       Analytic Approach. With the outlined data collected, we can generate a model to predict which characters participants may be most likely to believe had the crime at many timepoints throughout exposure, which can be calculated by averaging the rank-order index of every possible suspect at each temporal rating point. Those characters which demonstrate a relatively high average suspect rate (i.e., are the top suspect across participants at any given timepoint) will be included in the data collection for the final neuroimaging project. Additionally, quantitative methods will be employed to determine the frequency with which individuals switch their suspect hypothesis to a new character and this information may be used to inform how frequently participants are asked who they believe committed the crime within the final neuroimaging project.
Study 2: Informational Weight and Event Boundaries
       To determine which events and information participants are most influencing their judgment formation, another behavioral study will be conducted tasking subjects to watch Episode 4 of The Undoing and to continuously report how important each moment is towards informing their certainty judgments. We hypothesize that timepoints which carry little informational weight will often be ignored or not be reacted to while timepoints carrying lots of informational weight will more likely motivate changes in certainty or hypotheses. After completing this task, participants will complete a follow-up in which they revisit the episode and place boundaries around events that cohere together. Capturing this data will allow us to better parse the influence of idiosyncratic judgment-related cognition apart from the shared influence of the stimulus. 
Proposed Methods
       The results of Study 1 will help determine the sample size for Study 2. We will strive to attain twenty-five (25) participants per character commonly cited as a suspect. In other words, if participants primarily cite four characters as the primary suspects, we expect to recruit 100 participants with an additional 25 participants to act as controls and an additional 13 participants to account for attrition.  Participants will again be recruited amongst the undergraduate population of a public research university in the northeast region of the USA for a study examining how we "use information to judge television characters".  Participants will be excluded if they indicate any familiarity with the plot of HBO’s The Undoing. Participants will receive course credit in exchange for 2 hours of in-person study participation. Procedures will be approved by the university's Institutional Review Board for Human Subjects. 
       Proposed Design. Each participant’s data will be collected in a single in-person session. Participants will first perform a training exercise to ensure comprehension. During the primary task, participants are provided necessary but minimal background information about the narrative they are about to watch (i.e., The Undoing, HBO Television) (e.g., character’s names, general roles, and relationships to other characters). They will then be randomly assigned to be informed that one of the primary suspects had actually committed the crime, regardless of whether the character actually had committed the crime. An additional 25 subjects will not be assigned a hypothesis and asked to maintain a neutral view throughout the episode. Though assignment of perspective is not ideal (See Present Research, Study 1, Confounds), it guarantees consistency across the narrative and a sufficient distribution of each of the potential perspectives that we might see in our subsequent primary study with respect to the limited resources available for recruitment. Even if Study 1 suggests that the distribution of perspectives as to who committed the crime were to be relatively even at each point, it would be highly unlike that participants were to maintain the same perspective of the perpetrator throughout the duration of the narrative. If a superior approach to capture this data with adequate representation but less researcher interference becomes available, we will amend our design to incorporate it.
       Prior to the video start, participants will be asked to continuously assess how important each moment is to determining that their assigned character committed the crime, yielding a time course of informational weight for any of the unique hypotheses participants might entertain while watching the stimulus. Following all study procedures, the extent to which hypothesis-assigned participants believed the condition that they were assigned to will be assessed. Participants not assigned to a hypothesis will be asked the extent to which they believe the perpetrator of the crime was in the episode and to identify who they believe committed the crime. Following this first task, participants will be asked to complete a second task in which an interactive timeline of the events of the stimulus is visualized and participants will be asked to place boundaries at points in which they believe denote distinguishable events. Participants will be allowed to place as few or as many boundaries as they like and will be permitted to replay segments from the stimulus presentation to aid in their efforts. After a participant indicates that all boundaries have been placed, they will be asked to review and confirm that the boundaries placed, which will be visualized on the timeline, illustrate how they represent the breaks within the narrative. This study design will be piloted with a small group of subjects (n = 10) prior to fully committing to recruitment.
       Analytic Approach. The data collected in this study will inform our analyses by defining hypothesis-specific informational priors to include in subsequent models as well as a quantitatively supported basis for defining discrete events within our narrative. Within each condition, a weighted average of informational weight will be calculated at every timepoint which represents the likelihood that an individual may update their certainty rating. For hypothesis-assigned participants, this value will be weighted according to the participant’s self-reported belief that their assigned hypothesis was accurate, with participants reporting low belief being weighted less heavily than those with high belief. For hypothesis-unassigned participants, this value will be weighted according to the participant’s self-reported belief that they are being provided with sufficient information to accurately assess the weight of information (i.e., that the killer has been represented). In both cases, the logic is that individuals who strongly entertain alternative hypotheses are likely interpreting information differently than individuals who are strongly invested in their assigned hypothesis, in line with the results of our first preliminary study. The resultant time course of information weight will be visualized using loess curves for each condition and statistically analyzed at each timepoint using General Linear Modeling to determine when hypothesis differences motivate differences in informational weight and how significantly these timepoints deviate from the way other individual entertaining other hypotheses judged the weight of the given information. The resultant array of values can then be averaged across 2 second periods to be compatible with our TR, broken into two halves, and entered as a predictor, covariate, or used as a comparison in future models as needed based upon the hypothesis participants indicate endorsing.
       Next, we will use the event boundaries participants produced to generate an approximation of how an average participant might naturally segment or make sense of the narrative. Again, an average composite time course will be constructed by averaging the boundaried timeline each participant submitted. Each timepoint without a boundary will receive a value of 0 and each timepoint at which a boundary was placed will receive a score of 1. In theory, participants should be more likely to place event boundaries at natural segmentation points, ideally yielding an approximation of a gaussian distribution with a peak timepoint. More idiosyncratic boundaries will likely be minimized during averaging as other participants fail to reinforce them. The composite time course will be z-scored and boundaries will be defined as the point of highest magnitude within a distribution, assuming that any values within that distribution rise above a predetermined z-statistic. The composite time course will be assessed for hypothesis-specific effects; that is to say, whether individuals entertaining different hypotheses boundaried the events in different ways. While the primary aim of this study is to generate a universal mapping of events, a hypothesis-specific mapping could also be useful, should substantial variance exist, and finding such variance might constitute a change to the analytic plan and recruitment strategy for this specific study.
       Study 3: Neural Synchrony and Specificity
	Our final study will build upon the initial analyses conducted in the second preliminary study by applying Intersubject Correlational methods to fMRI data in order to determine the extent to which perspective and behavior influence neural synchrony in social certainty judgments. By functionally parcellating the brain into defined regions and then correlating activity within each of those regions across time between participants as we had in the supporting study, we can quantitatively define how similar activity is across individuals in each region as they form their certainty judgments. Additionally, we can improve upon many of the limitations of our preliminary work by incorporating the various other pieces of data that we have collected, including free recall, non-social certainty judgment formation, unrated portions of stimulus exposure, additional survey materials, and the supplemental information we will glean from Studies 1 and 2.   
Proposed Methods
       Approximately sixty (60) subjects will be recruited from a metropolitan area in the northeast region of the USA for a study examining how "use information to judge television characters". However, we may increase or decrease the sample size as needed based upon the results of Studies 1 and 2 in order to achieve sufficient representation of the hypothesis variance. Participants will excluded if they indicate any familiarity with the plot of HBO’s The Undoing. Participants will consent to 2.5 hours of study participation in exchange for $65 in gift cards. Experimental procedures have been approved by the university's Institutional Review Board for Human Subjects. All subjects will provide informed consent and undergo functional fMRI for approximately an hour and thirty minutes while completing tasks created using PsychoPy (version 2021.2.3) and Matlab’s PsychToolBox. Additional measures will be completed on the Qualtrics electronic data capture platform.
       Proposed Design. The proposed study design is the same as the preliminary neural data previously outlined (See Fig. 7). The protocol may be amended to capture which hypotheses participants are entertaining more frequently than outlined if Study 1 of this dissertation suggests that participants are regularly changing their hypothesis regarding who had committed the crime more frequently than once per half episode.    
       Analytic Approach. Our analytic approach will also mirror many aspects of the preliminary neural data with some additional improvements. While we do aim to generate models of neural synchrony among individuals maintaining the same hypotheses, we can also compare synchrony across behavioral indicators of certainty in the same pairs and examine to what extent does neural synchrony predict behavioral synchrony in social certainty judgments (See Fig. 10) through the application of hierarchical linear modeling adjusting for the random effects of participant pairs and yield a beta value representing how strongly associated neural synchrony is with behavioral synchrony across participants for each of the 400 Schaefer parcellations. Additional covariates in the form of individual difference scales (e.g., IUS), hypothesis, and evaluations of the characters will be added as appropriate following an information theoretic approach via model AIC comparison. This process can be repeated while replacing and/or convolving the behavioral synchrony data with  informational weighting acquired in Study 2 to generate comparison models and allowing us to better separate the influence of features of the stimulus from the cognitive processes elicited to assess social uncertainty judgments. The results of these models, which would be a collection of R values indicating how synchronous the behavioral/cognitive components were with neural activity, could then be analyzed using General Linear Models like ANOVA to determine whether significant differences exist. We can use a similar approach to generate models of synchrony in non-social certainty judgments using the control task in which participants indicate how certain they are that the luminance of each frame is darker or lighter than a target image. In this case, the actual luminance value of each frame would be analogous to the informational weight present within the stimulus. Deviations from these signals in their respective behavioral correlates could be conceptualized as idiosyncratic activity unique to each participants’ certainty-related cognitions. With both social and non-social models of neural synchrony during certainty judgments, we can make comparisons on a region by region basis and identify differences in how different regions respond. We can also compare models of neural synchrony during periods when participants are actively rating versus passively watching in order to identify that actively evaluating one’s certainty rating with a numeric representation has upon activity. Lastly, using the free recall participants complete, we can identify which discrete events participants remember and which order they recall them in to identify whether increased neural synchrony during the task also predicts synchrony in the accuracy, linearity, and detail with which participants represent their experiences in memory.
References
Alós-Ferrer, C., & Farolfi, F. (2019). Trust Games and Beyond. Frontiers in Neuroscience, 13, 887. https://doi.org/10.3389/fnins.2019.00887
Altavilla, D., Adornetti, I., Chiera, A., Deriu, V., Acciai, A., & Ferretti, F. (2022). Introspective self-narrative modulates the neuronal response during the emphatic process: An event-related potentials (ERPs) study. Experimental Brain Research, 240(10), 2725–2738. https://doi.org/10.1007/s00221-022-06441-4
Antony, J. W., Hartshorne, T. H., Pomeroy, K., Gureckis, T. M., Hasson, U., McDougle, S. D., & Norman, K. A. (2021). Behavioral, Physiological, and Neural Signatures of Surprise during Naturalistic Sports Viewing. Neuron, 109(2), 377-390.e7. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuron.2020.10.029
Beck, A. T. (1961). An Inventory for Measuring Depression. Archives of General Psychiatry, 4(6), 561. https://doi.org/10.1001/archpsyc.1961.01710120031004
Blankenstein, N. E., Crone, E. A., van den Bos, W., & van Duijvenvoorde, A. C. K. (2016). Dealing With Uncertainty: Testing Risk- and Ambiguity-Attitude Across Adolescence. Developmental Neuropsychology, 41(1–2), 77–92. https://doi.org/10.1080/87565641.2016.1158265
Carleton, R. N., Norton, M. A. P. J., & Asmundson, G. J. G. (2007). Fearing the unknown: A short version of the Intolerance of Uncertainty Scale. Journal of Anxiety Disorders, 21(1), 105–117. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.janxdis.2006.03.014
Chang, L., Eshin Jolly, Cheong, J. H., Burnashev, A., & Chen, A. (2018). cosanlab/nltools: 0.3.11. Zenodo. https://doi.org/10.5281/ZENODO.2229813
Chen, J., Leong, Y. C., Honey, C. J., Yong, C. H., Norman, K. A., & Hasson, U. (2017). Shared memories reveal shared structure in neural activity across individuals. Nature Neuroscience, 20(1), 115–125. https://doi.org/10.1038/nn.4450
Ellsberg, D. (1961). Risk, Ambiguity, and the Savage Axioms. Quarterly Journal of Economics, 75(27), 27. https://doi.org/10.2307/1884324
Esteban, O., Blair, R., Markiewicz, C. J., Berleant, S. L., Moodie, C., Ma, F., Isik, A. I., Erramuzpe, A., Goncalves, M., Poldrack, R. A., & Gorgolewski, K. J. (2017). Poldracklab/Fmriprep: 1.0.0-Rc5. Zenodo. https://doi.org/10.5281/ZENODO.996169
Fairley, K., Vyrastekova, J., Weitzel, U., & Sanfey, A. G. (2022). Beyond lottery-evoked ambiguity aversion: The neural signature of the types and the sources of uncertainty. NeuroImage, 251, 119007. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuroimage.2022.119007
FeldmanHall, O., & Shenhav, A. (2019). Resolving uncertainty in a social world. Nature Human Behaviour, 3(5), 426–435. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41562-019-0590-x
Fujino, J., Hirose, K., Tei, S., Kawada, R., Tsurumi, K., Matsukawa, N., Miyata, J., Sugihara, G., Yoshihara, Y., Ideno, T., Aso, T., Takemura, K., Fukuyama, H., Murai, T., & Takahashi, H. (2016). Ambiguity aversion in schizophrenia: An fMRI study of decision-making under risk and ambiguity. Schizophrenia Research, 178(1–3), 94–101. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.schres.2016.09.006
Hertz, U., Tyropoulou, E., Traberg, C., & Bahrami, B. (2020). Self-competence increases the willingness to pay for social influence. Scientific Reports, 10(1), 17813. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-020-74857-5
Heusser, A. C., Fitzpatrick, P. C., & Manning, J. R. (2021). Geometric models reveal behavioural and neural signatures of transforming experiences into memories. Nature Human Behaviour, 5(7), 905–919. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41562-021-01051-6
Jenkinson, M., Beckmann, C. F., Behrens, T. E. J., Woolrich, M. W., & Smith, S. M. (2012). FSL. NeuroImage, 62(2), 782–790. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuroimage.2011.09.015
Kruglanski, A. W., Webster, D. M., & Klem, A. (1993). Motivated resistance and openness to persuasion in the presence or absence of prior information. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 65(5), 861–876. https://doi.org/10.1037/0022-3514.65.5.861
Lauharatanahirun, N., Aimone, J. A., & Gately, J. (2021). Behind the Veil of Ambiguity: Decision-Making under Social and Non-Social Sources of Uncertainty. SSRN Electronic Journal. https://doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3937388
Li, R., Brannon, E. M., & Huettel, S. A. (2015). Children do not exhibit ambiguity aversion despite intact familiarity bias. Frontiers in Psychology, 5. https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2014.01519
Ma, I., Westhoff, B., & van Duijvenvoorde, A. C. K. (2022). Uncertainty about others’ trustworthiness increases during adolescence and guides social information sampling. Scientific Reports, 12(1), 7634. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-022-09477-2
Martinez?Saito, M., & Gorina, E. (2022). Learning under social versus nonsocial uncertainty: A meta?analytic approach. Human Brain Mapping, 43(13), 4185–4206. https://doi.org/10.1002/hbm.25948
Pagliaccio, D., Kumar, P., Kamath, R. A., Pizzagalli, D. A., & Auerbach, R. P. (2022). Neural sensitivity to peer feedback and depression symptoms in adolescents: A 2?YEAR multiwave longitudinal study. Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry, jcpp.13690. https://doi.org/10.1111/jcpp.13690
Rowe, D. B., Nencka, A. S., & Hoffmann, R. G. (2007). Signal and noise of Fourier reconstructed fMRI data. Journal of Neuroscience Methods, 159(2), 361–369. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jneumeth.2006.07.022
Shu, J., Bolger, N., & Ochsner, K. N. (2021). Social emotion regulation strategies are differentially helpful for anxiety and sadness. Emotion, 21(6), 1144–1159. pdh. https://doi.org/10.1037/emo0000921
Skapinakis, P. (2014). Spielberger State-Trait Anxiety Inventory. In A. C. Michalos (Ed.), Encyclopedia of Quality of Life and Well-Being Research (pp. 6261–6264). Springer Netherlands. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-94-007-0753-5_2825
Thornton, M. A., & Mitchell, J. P. (2018). Theories of Person Perception Predict Patterns of Neural Activity During Mentalizing. Cerebral Cortex, 28(10), 3505–3520. https://doi.org/10.1093/cercor/bhx216
Tor D., W. (2011). NeuroSynth: A new platform for large-scale automated synthesis of human functional neuroimaging data. Frontiers in Neuroinformatics, 5. https://doi.org/10.3389/conf.fninf.2011.08.00058
Trautmann, S. T., Vieider, F. M., & Wakker, P. P. (2008). Causes of ambiguity aversion: Known versus unknown preferences. Journal of Risk and Uncertainty, 36(3), 225–243. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11166-008-9038-9
Wigham, S., Rodgers, J., South, M., McConachie, H., & Freeston, M. (2015). The Interplay Between Sensory Processing Abnormalities, Intolerance of Uncertainty, Anxiety and Restricted and Repetitive Behaviours in Autism Spectrum Disorder. Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders, 45(4), 943–952. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10803-014-2248-x
Yeshurun, Y., Swanson, S., Simony, E., Chen, J., Lazaridi, C., Honey, C. J., & Hasson, U. (2017). Same Story, Different Story: The Neural Representation of Interpretive Frameworks. Psychological Science, 28(3), 307–319. https://doi.org/10.1177/0956797616682029
Yoshioka, A., Tanabe, H. C., Nakagawa, E., Sumiya, M., Koike, T., & Sadato, N. (2023). The Role of the Left Inferior Frontal Gyrus in Introspection during Verbal Communication. Brain Sciences, 13(1), 111. https://doi.org/10.3390/brainsci13010111


